Good afternoon, my name is Evgenia Varlamova.
I have 15 years of experience in the field of staff management
and have successfully implemented projects in such companies as
Eastline, Domodedovo International Airport,
Azon Internet Store,
and the international IT company CarTech Limited.
At the moment, I work as a Director of the Investment and Financial Group
Broker Credit Service.
I am pleased to present to you the topic
of the Corporate Training Center as a tool for planning a career.
As you know, our managers and investors are so advanced
that arguments on how to manage staff that are only in the plane
of increasing salaries and material motivation, social packages,
no longer work.
Our management is interested in soft tools for motivating and
maintaining staff, such as training, planning a career.
This argument now works very well for both employees
and candidates whom we want to involve in the company.
Unfortunately, business is growing slower than the level of
labor payment in Russia, and therefore we really do not even have a way out,
except to apply soft tools in maintaining and attracting staff.
In my experience, candidates talk less about the possibilities of
salaries, social packages, planned increases.
They rather talk about the career,
about the positions that they will occupy from the very beginning
and what opportunities they will have in terms of responsibility and growth.
What opportunities in terms of career the company offers them for the next six months,
a year, two years and a more distant future.
It is how we will build the career of our employees,
show them the horizons of their growth in our company.
It is from this that it depends how much money we will really spend on our employees,
what salary level we will offer them and how long we will successfully cooperate with our employees.
Today we will talk about how we can plan the career of employees in our company
and how career planning corresponds to all other functions of staff management.
Today we will focus on the training center, the corporate university
and all possible methods of training staff as the main mechanism for career development.
I will tell you a little about the company in which we have promoted this project the most,
about the career planning itself, what it consists of and about the system of the corporate university,
how the corporate university and all methods of training and development of staff can work on career planning.
In my experience, it is in high-tech companies that candidates and employees pay special attention to their career growth opportunities.
We mean not only horizontal development, which is most often limited,
but also flat organizational structure, in which there are only a few levels, 3, 4, 5 levels.
Thus, the vertical opportunities for career growth are quite limited.
Thus, each HR receives such a creative task,
in the same way, without violating the organizational structure of the company,
to show each employee the opportunities for professional growth
and motivate him with the content of work, not only with salary and the name of positions.
So, the main principles of career planning.
We in the company declare the value of training and development of staff.
Moreover, these positions can be described from the job offer,
that is, even before a person becomes our employee.
In the proposal for work, we prescribe not only the compensation package,
but also pay special attention to the opportunities for training an employee,
the opportunities for his career growth.
And with some candidates, we are already at the stage of negotiations,
until the candidate is our employee, we agree on what real promotion in his position he can get during the first year of work.
For a longer term, our candidates in Russia do not often look,
but it is very important for them that we, as a company, can offer them during the first year of work,
if our cooperation develops positively, we will be satisfied with the employee and he will be satisfied with his work.
It is very important at the stage of the interview with the candidate,
when we are not yet associated with any official obligations to each other, to find out the level of his ambitions.
It is at this moment that we can expect that the candidate will be able to reveal his ambitions and interests more,
since he is not yet bound by any labor relations with the employer.
It is at this moment that it is important to identify and concretize his ambitions,
because if we take an employee with high ambitions for a position that does not imply serious career growth,
then we will lose the company's money and lose the time of the employee.
Thus, it is very important to discuss many psychological details at the time of the interview,
which will show us how the career of this employee in the company can be successful.
For example, we consider a candidate for the position of an accountant,
but during the interview he tells us about his professional dreams in the field of finance,
he wants to be a financial analyst, and in 5-10 years he wants to take the position of a financial director.
And we understand that in the next two years he will hardly be able to get such a promotion in the company,
so it is better to tell the candidate about this at the stage of the interview,
and to look for a candidate for this position, who has less ambitions,
and with whom we will have less headaches as soon as he takes this position and joins our company in labor relations.
The planning of a career depends on the position we take on a person, on his ambitions, on his personality.
We can clarify these details during the interview.
Also, in companies, as a rule, now in most companies,
annually or even quarterly, the evaluation of the results of the employee's activity is carried out,
the so-called KPI, with key indicators of efficiency.
And it is very important to position that the result of the employee
will have a serious impact on his career planning and possible promotions.
Employees themselves most often associate the assessment, which in some companies is called attestation,
rather with the payment of bonuses, with a raise in salary,
and rarely think that this can affect their career.
The manager's participation in such interviews,
in the evaluation interview, is very important,
because it is in this interview, in this evaluation conversation of the manager with his subordinate,
that some dissatisfaction with the employee may be revealed regarding his current functionality, current duties.
And new ambitions may be revealed, something that we, for example, did not see half a year ago.
Now the world is changing very quickly, business is changing very quickly.
Our company is in a very energetic changing environment,
and therefore the ideas of employees, their thoughts, their ambitions,
they can change very energetically as well.
And once a quarter, once every six months, this is just the period when it is important to understand
where this employee has advanced, how he suits the company,
where he can be more effective, what additional functionality he is ready to perform and, accordingly, choose for himself.
And usually, I would also recommend in the interview on the assessment of the effectiveness of employees,
include a very important block of planning, training and development.
You can use special forms of the individual development plan,
where we discuss with the employee not only his results for the past period,
but also his plans for the next period, including in terms of responsibility and functions.
And this is just the best time to talk to him about the capabilities of their company in its training and development.
When we talk about training, already looking at the plane of training,
we can say that very often now candidates ask in the job offer to write down what responsibility the company is ready to take
at the stage of negotiations with the future employee about his training.
So, for some employees at certain positions, we can even write that the company,
during the first quarter, the first six months of work,
the first year of work, must train the employee on such topics, on such courses.
And for candidates for work now it has become very significant,
especially those positions that are associated with a certain level of certification,
such as, for example, in the financial sphere.
HR often places this as such an important condition for technical employees, programmers.
And here it is a very serious signal that says that this candidate is serious about his career,
he has certain plans and he considers the work in our company not just as a banal work device,
but also as a way to earn money in the plane of developing his career.
And here, of course, it is also important for us to ask him in more detail what ideas he has in terms of his professional future
and evaluate from the point of view of the employer how long we can be interesting to each other with this employee.
In my experience, it has been meaningful to talk about the horizon of planning for no more than two years.
Usually, candidates consider the possibility of their relationship with a new employer at this time.
And from the point of view of us as employers, this is also a comfortable period
during which we can at least get a ready-to-work candidate in our company.
I usually describe it in such words that you understand that the company will invest its time, its experience in you,
and you will work with colleagues who will share their experience, their technologies.
The company has certain very serious technological developments,
and therefore it would be important for us as a company that you plan your employment with us for at least two years.
And only in this horizon of planning can we discuss our responsibility as an employer in terms of planning a career and in terms of your training.
As a rule, such a horizon of planning is comfortable for the employee and for the company.
In reality, this period is not always withstood.
Some employees work significantly longer, and we have to part with some employees for quite objective reasons.
It is very important not to lower the training plans from top to bottom,
as a big project of the company, but to involve employees in the study, to involve employees in the discussion of the needs of the study.
And we do it in a variety of ways, using all possible reasons for this.
Starting with the reception at work, when we ask such a question for the identification of the interests of the candidates,
we ask such a question as what would you like to learn more about, what training would you like to go through,
what do you think could be interesting to you and would help your efficiency at work.
Also, all interviews with assessments and attestations of employees, assessments of their performance,
they can also serve the purpose of building up plans for the training and development of a person.
But it is also very important to prevent such a consumer attitude of employees to the company.
When an employee peddles the topic that the company should train him, the company should promote him,
it is very important to shift the focus and emphasize that the company also expects from the employee his efforts,
his professional efforts, his self-training.
And training is a mutual process, not a process in one direction.
And in order to increase the responsibility of the employee, we, before expensive training, of course,
sign a student contract with the person.
And besides, we show in a special format how one or another training,
how one or another training should affect the efficiency, the effectiveness of the work of the employee.
And the central, central for the career planning system and for the training system is, of course,
the corporate competence model.
Here on this slide you can see an example of such a model.
Here it consists of 10 competencies.
In each company it can be different.
Competencies can depend on specific positions,
can be developed individually for each group of positions,
or it can be a general corporate model.
It depends on how much time the HR has for its development and at what stage the company is.
But at least one corporate competence model,
which depends on the level of the employee,
depends on their professional specialization, of course, it should be.
Here you see a model of competence out of 10 competencies,
which is designed specifically for a high-tech company working in the field of e-commerce.
The company industry, it imposes a very large imprint,
and greatly affects the composition of the competence.
As you can see, special attention is paid to innovation,
positive thinking, positive communication.
This means that in an innovative company, an innovative industry,
competencies are very important,
which determine the style of communication between employees and the nature of their work.
It is very important for a company that people show innovation,
that they feel free to make decisions and share ideas with each other.
Here you see a very important competence, positive thinking, positive communication.
It is about making it easier for people and employees to share ideas with each other
and to organize working groups to discuss problems or areas of problems
in order to jointly develop a group solution, a group idea.
Here you see that there is a special competence of teamwork, business thinking,
and, of course, professionalism, which depends on the professional field in which a person works.
I would say that this is a universal competence.
Here the manager assesses the employee,
how much his level of knowledge and experience meet the needs of the company.
In the next slide, we can see an example of a bar,
an assessment of key indicators of efficiency.
This is a bar that is used in assessments of the efficiency of employees,
which, as I said, takes place once a quarter, once every six months or once a year, depending on the company.
And here is a very important point that every goal that we set for a person for the next period of work
must be necessarily prescribed, it must be weighted,
it must be assigned a certain weight, a certain importance.
And we must tell the employee what exactly result we expect from him, at what level.
And the most important point is that the employee himself is signed in this bar.
And as a result, after a certain period of time,
this is a quarter, six months or a year,
the employee and the manager meet again,
and they have a great opportunity to assess what goals have been achieved,
achieved at the expected level,
what goals have been achieved, but at a level lower than expected,
what goals have not been achieved, and for what reason.
And this is a great opportunity to assess what we have not achieved,
what prevented us, and what plans in training and development we can offer a person here.
That is, what we as a company can offer an employee in terms of increasing his knowledge,
increasing his experience, his professional competencies.
On the other hand, the employee himself must also think about this.
And, as a rule, employees are already preparing for the assessment of their performance in a few weeks.
And a special training is held in the company,
when we teach managers how to conduct feedback on the results of the assessment of performance.
And we teach the employees how to best use this wonderful opportunity of interview on the results of their activities.
And here on the next slide we can see the simplest format,
which is also used as a result of the interview on the results of the work of the employee.
Here is the individual training plan.
Here we write what the goal of the training is, what we want to train employees for,
the training plan, the topic, the deadlines, and what results we expect.
In addition, here you can also enter a column for which competence a particular training will work.
And this allows us, on the one hand, to plan the training more accurately for the staff.
These blanks are submitted to the training center after the assessment.
And the training center can already assess the needs of the company in training and plan the training for the next period.
And, of course, as you understand, the most effective use of such formats in an electronic form.
And now there are already many programs for managing staff,
which allow you to automate the assessment process of performance,
and planning training, and also planning a career.
So, now let's talk about career planning.
From the point of view of employees, as a rule, career planning is a company's obligation.
What positions should the company offer him at a certain time horizon.
But from the point of view of HR and from the point of view of the company,
career planning is a determination, together with the employee,
to make clear prospects for his professional development within the framework of the company's strategic development.
This is a very important point,
since we plan the career of employees not only based on their ambitions, their professional desires, plans,
but, first of all, of course, from the point of view of the company's strategic plans.
Here you can give such an example.
For example, in one IT company, where the main staff are software specialists and software implementation,
when the company changed its strategy and changed the focus of its activities from software development to its implementation,
we conducted a special interview with each programmer on the subject of his interests, his ambitions,
and used different levers, different methods to help programmers realize how interesting it would be for them,
that it would be interesting for them not only to program and work with code,
but also to work with the client and implement software products.
Of course, we understand the limitations of this approach,
that there are programmers who do not want to see the client in principle,
but there are also a certain number of programmers who are ready to consider the possibility of working with clients at a certain time horizon
and can see how the client's work on the implementation of software products, how it promotes them professionally.
And here it is very important for us, as HR, to be able to argue this position, which is very important for the company,
and can also be beneficial for the employees themselves,
because they will be able to further develop within the company and develop their professional skills and knowledge.
That is, our main goal in planning a career is to create a synergy of interests of the company and the employee,
which is achieved through numerous negotiations, numerous interviews and numerous methods of managing staff.
Thus, with the help of planning a career, we solve several tasks at once.
This is not material motivation.
It would seem that this is paradoxical, but nevertheless,
simply because the manager of the staff, the head of the employee,
once a quarter or once every six months, talks to the employee and discusses his ambitions,
his professional goals, his needs in training and development,
only one of these facts already reduces the tension in the team
and gives the employees a clearer perspective of their professional path in the company.
This significantly affects motivation.
We also achieve the reduction of liquidity by planning a career,
because employees who see their prospects in the company are less likely to leave the competition,
since they see their opportunities with us.
In addition, employees work more energetically, more motivatedly.
That is, in the same time, with the help of the same resources, we achieve a greater result.
Therefore, I would say that planning a career is such a universal tool and a very powerful tool.
The only thing is that certain resources are necessary here.
In the next slide, we can see a pyramid that shows how different companies are moving towards this topic.
At the first level, the number K1, it shows that many companies are thinking about planning a career
only when an employee comes with his application and says about his intention to leave the company.
Then the boss calls HR manager and says, listen, talk to him, maybe you will offer him something,
or let's think together.
This is such a natural solution to the problem of planning a career.
Further, at the second stage, management, after a certain number of such cases,
when employees want to leave, but the reason is not only money, but also career prospects,
the management sets us a goal.
Let's somehow describe how our employees can develop within the company.
In fact, this is a very difficult technological task, very difficult.
It is very important to analyze the entire organizational structure,
taking into account the fact that employees can grow their careers not only in their management vertical,
but it is also important to highlight the entire blocks of the organizational structure,
within which employees can change their positions and move from one department to another.
For example, it was once very surprising for us that Western companies,
in order to keep HR manager inside the company, changed HR manager specialization every two years.
There are a lot of different and very serious differentiated functions in HR management.
For example, salary management, compensation management, training and development management, or recruiting.
These are completely different areas, they require different qualifications and different experience.
But Western companies went for changing HR manager specialization every two years.
This achieved the goal that HR manager's interest remained inside the company,
he worked longer than other companies where specialization did not change.
Of course, this is an additional expense for the company.
The company conducts special training, loses efficiency when hiring a new employee,
but nevertheless, the goal of the team is to maintain the corporate competencies,
since in the fruit companies, not only professional competencies, but also corporate competencies are important.
The fact that a person owns all the subtleties, all the values of the company.
And thus it was possible to keep employees longer.
And only at the third stage, here you see a yellow figure,
at the third stage, the function of career planning becomes a full-fledged function of HR management.
Here it is interconnected with other functions of HR management.
Career planning is interconnected with training and development of staff.
But this is not the highest horizon that a company can reach in this area.
So, at the fourth stage, the company already more clearly integrates this function of career planning
into the rest of the functions of HR management.
It is connected with the corporate training center.
At the highest stage of career planning in the company,
we already see career planning as a corporate value of the company.
And what is usually called a self-training organization.
A self-training organization, which is imbued with the cult of coaching.
When each new employee or employee who is transferred to another position has a special coach,
who will help him overcome both personal and professional barriers at a new position.
And a culture of development, when training is held not only in training classes,
not only in out-of-town seminars, but also at work.
Thus, as you can see, at least five stages,
by which the company can grow and develop its attitude to career planning.
So, the key elements of the career are key competencies.
When we discuss with an employee the possibility of developing his career,
we are not talking about positions and money, which are associated with these positions.
First of all, we are talking about key competencies and the level of their development.
How does his competence profile correspond to the profile of this position?
What are the GPs?
What are the key competencies that he has not yet developed enough?
And how can the company help in this?
What training and development plan can the company offer?
Also, the second element, as you can see on this slide,
a very important slide in my opinion,
the second element of career planning is career options.
This is just an intellectual product of HR and managers,
who will show how within the framework of this organizational structure
each employee can grow in his career and in his professionalism.
Career paths, we will show it separately,
they should be related to the business logic,
not just to the logic and ambition of employees.
And the third element of career planning is the effort of the employee himself.
That is, we emphasize during the interview,
the interview can be about career planning,
or interview about assessment of results,
or about planning an individual development plan.
In this interview, we focus the employee's attention
on what efforts are necessary on his part
in order to develop the key competencies
that are necessary for the next stage of his career growth.
And, as I said, on the next slide we can see
what a career looks like from the employee's point of view.
The employee sees that here are the next positions
and the next level of salaries,
the next power, the status in the company,
the place in the hierarchy.
From the point of view of the company,
as we see on the next slide,
the career path of an employee looks somewhat different.
It is very important for the company to receive a new level of responsibility from the employee,
a new level of development of key competencies,
for each of the next positions.
And the company wants to see what efforts
the person is ready to make
in order to develop himself
in accordance with the requirements of the next stage of his career.
How does the company manage the careers?
Here on this slide is shown a simple scheme,
but it is very clear.
So, we evaluate the employees.
The evaluation of the staff means
the evaluation of the employee's performance,
the evaluation of his competencies.
The next point is the career options
that we can offer to the person.
As a rule, this is a professional career or a management career,
and the training system that will support this wonderful process.
So, on this slide I tried to reflect
the stages of creating a career planning system.
From my experience,
it is constructed in this way.
As you know, the company's work structure
does not always reflect the real specifics of the business
and the real business process.
The work structure can age,
it can be in a constant state of change,
and therefore, in order to plan and create career paths,
it is better to rely not on formal documents,
but rather on communication with managers.
And when we ask managers very simple questions,
such as how the career of employees usually develops,
what employees are the most successful in your opinion,
how they made their careers,
from which departments they came to you,
what departments their career can develop further,
in this way you will informally receive information
from managers about the real logic of the development of the career of employees
that has already taken place at the moment,
which the company may not even sometimes guess about.
The second point in creating a career planning system
is the creation of assessment tools.
Assessment tools are a model of competencies
and how we will measure these competencies.
These can be assessment centers,
expert assessments,
structured interviews,
anything that coincides with the specificity of this industry
and specific competencies.
Then individual career growth plans are developed and implemented,
and as a result, a training system is created
that supports this career planning.
The career planning system in the company,
as you can see, is very serious,
intellectually and organizationally.
The whole process can take from six months to one and a half to two years.
It all depends on the motivation of the managers themselves,
on the inclusion of managers,
and on how the company evaluates the relevance of this system.
Here, for example,
the question of how much information can be obtained only informally,
can be given as an example.
In one IT company, as in many others,
all programmers were divided into three blocks.
This is programming itself,
service desk,
how to serve clients,
and implementation.
Three large organizational blocks,
three large divisions.
And since employees change,
and managers change periodically,
it was not easy to get complete information
about how employees usually do their careers.
And only by means of communication with key employees,
who work the longest in the company,
and with managers,
it was possible to understand that,
depending on the interests and ambitions of employees,
the planning of a career can be very different.
For some employees,
it is more interesting to communicate with clients,
so they try to get into the implementation department in every possible way.
Some programmers do not want to know anything about the client,
and then they position themselves in the development department.
And the less popular,
or at least the least popular part,
is the service of clients.
Why?
Because it is the most stressful part of the job,
and the most difficult.
And of course,
all programmers try to avoid this positioning.
And in order to somehow manage this moment,
and meet the needs of the company
in all three positions of programmers,
it was necessary to develop special career paths,
and to take this into account in career paths.
We will talk about this a little later.
As I said,
the personal evaluation plays a special role in the planning of a career.
And here on this slide we see the main blocks of personal evaluation,
those qualities that are important to evaluate
from the point of view of planning a career.
These are professional skills, management skills, and motivation.
We refer to professional skills here
what is related to the professional specialization of this employee.
That is, for a programmer,
it can be the possession of certain programming technologies.
For a lawyer,
it can be his specialization within a particular law.
For a financier,
it can also be their specialization
and their level of knowledge and skills
in a particular professional field.
To evaluate professional skills,
the expert assessment of the manager
or special professional tests are used most often.
And of course, it is very convenient to use professional tests,
because they allow you to evaluate a very large number of people at the same time
using standard methods
and store this data in digital form.
For example, as soon as a very large company
wants to evaluate a large number of one-profile specialists at the same time,
a professional test is usually developed
using external providers or internal specialists.
And with the help of this test,
a mass assessment of the employees of these departments is carried out.
The second big block of assessment is the assessment of management skills.
Here, this block is important for us
so that we can assess the management potential of this employee
and how much we can consider this specialist
for a management position in the near or distant future.
But there is such an aphorism
that if we promote a super professional at the level of a manager,
we get a bad manager and lose a professional.
Of course, this is not always the case.
Therefore, it is important to assess and assess a person's professional skills,
his management potential and motivation.
When it comes to management skills,
it is worth noting that
if this employee is not yet in a management position,
then we are unlikely to have the experience
to assess him from the point of view of his management skills.
Here, in this case, you can give the employee a temporary project,
a temporary working group
so that he can try himself as a manager
and so that his colleagues and managers can assess his management skills.
In order to assess the management potential of a person,
the usual case methods, assessment centers or 360 interviews are used.
A very important point is the evaluation of the employee's motivation for his career.
Each of us has faced strong professionals
who do not want to hear anything about a possible career,
neither horizontal nor vertical.
They have already reached a comfortable professional level for themselves,
they occupy a certain position
and perform a certain circle of functions and bear a certain responsibility.
They are not ready to discuss the possibility of expanding their functions or growth.
No matter how profitable it is for the company.
Here, of course, a special case.
As we know, certain corporate cultures and a number of companies
confess the principle of either up or overboard
and simply physically fire employees who do not advance in their careers.
Or they create such conditions when such employees are forced to quit
because sitting in one place is not popular in these companies.
But most companies are tolerant of such stars
who occupy a comfortable professional position for them.
They are unique specialists and meet the needs of the company.
Such employees can be programmers at any age,
when the company has already been addressed to them many times
on the topic of project management, management of departments.
But they refuse to do this and occupy a comfortable position for themselves.
Companies have to make up with this,
if the interests of the company and the interests of the employees really coincide.
But in other cases, there is already a special work.
In this way, it is very important to evaluate three blocks in terms of assessment.
Professional, management and motivation.
Motivation that can seriously affect our understanding of career planning for this employee.
Here, on the next slide, it is quite small,
but nevertheless, I tried to reflect the main issues
that we can discuss with a person for a career planning interview.
In one of the companies, I managed to implement a holistic project on career planning,
which was not initially associated with the organizational structure,
not with the training and development block.
Thus, we initiated a structured interview on career planning with each employee of the company.
I can share with you such an emotional experience.
It turned out that for most employees it was very important.
They just said thank you for talking to them about their ambitions,
their professional motivation, about who they would like to be in a year or two.
But I also had to touch on the questions about the past of employees,
about how they grew up in their careers,
what they consider the most important for themselves,
what they are proud of.
Such a complete range of information allowed me to give recommendations to the company
about which direction we can develop this employee.
On this slide, I highlighted the main questions,
which, in my opinion, are the most informative and, perhaps, not quite banal for such communication.
A career planning interview in a number of companies can be conducted with all employees of certain units,
or all units.
It can be tied to the evaluation of the results.
In some companies, a career planning interview is conducted only with employees
who are included in the resource pool or, as they say, the high-po.
These are high-potential employees,
on whom the company bets in the long term.
It is considered correct and, perhaps, the most economical,
if the company cannot afford to plan a career for all employees,
it is considered rational to plan it for at least the stars,
who have already shown themselves in the results of their work,
in the projects in which they participate or which they lead.
Such interviews are conducted with such employees.
In our experience, there were cases when such an interview was provoked by the desire of a person to resign.
When a person came to the manager with an application,
the manager sent this person to the department of work with the staff
and asked us to offer some option to motivate a valuable employee to stay in the company.
And then, of course, everything we talk about in terms of career planning,
everything applicable here, and the process begins with an interview on career planning.
When we identify the interests of an employee,
we talk to him about life, about what he likes in our company,
what possible prospects are.
It is very important to expand the area of ​​discussion with the employee as much as possible
so that he is not bound by hierarchy, not bound by organizational structure,
but so that we can openly discuss with him in what directions he sees himself,
in what positions and in what directions it would be interesting for him to continue his career.
And as a result of such a career planning, there can be very non-trivial organizational decisions.
When a person from one functional direction turns to a related or completely different direction.
But we'll talk about this later.
And the next slide shows us the stages of implementation.
The stages of implementation are the stages suffered during the practical implementation of career planning projects.
There are two very important points here.
These are the first and second points, which say that it is important for us to identify internal experts
who will give us formal and informal information, and also internal PR.
As you understand, as soon as we in the company declare that we will plan the career of an employee,
we launch such a project, then the employees have a moment of uncertainty.
Some of them may think that the company will lose its career growth,
and therefore, if he does not want to move anywhere, he will be fired.
Some employees, on the contrary, think that finally they will be able to bargain with the company
about the most attractive conditions for them.
Third employees, third categories, they may not know anything about it,
but they are in a state of uncertainty.
As we understand, uncertainty is not the best state for work.
Therefore, this is the second point of internal PR of the project.
It is very important to pay special attention to it.
Internal PR.
It is important to agree with the management and publish on internal resources,
on all possible information resources, the main values and the main importance of this project for the company and for the employees.
Usually, the most painless for the organization is when we position the career planning project
as a tool for motivating employees, as a tool for training and development.
This is the most universal wording, I would say, and the most understandable for employees.
All employees, to some extent, dream that their company will train them,
of course, at their own expense and in their working hours.
And the company can explain that in order to train you,
to plan training and development of training,
we need to understand your expectations, your ambitions, and plan for each career.
This is a universal wording that shows that in this project,
the interests of the company, the interests of the employees are the same.
And already the third point is when we start planning the project.
Not earlier, as any action from the management of the staff, as we know,
immediately strains the employees if they do not understand what we are talking about.
And since career planning affects either certain departments or the company as a whole,
it is important to give people the necessary information as soon as possible,
and in the simplest and most understandable form.
The next point is the creation of a career path map.
Further, the methodology of assessing the staff with clear indicators,
what we talked about a little earlier, the assessment of the staff,
the discussion of the results.
And here is a very important point that, of course, we try to make career planning
as objective as possible, and the methods of assessment, as the management requires from us,
to be as objective and formalized as possible.
But in reality, each company has a policy,
and, as a rule, the results of the assessment become the subject of a discussion of the higher management
about certain employees who are the most interesting and important to the company.
Therefore, before performing any actions,
usually the results of the evaluation of employees become the subject of a discussion of the higher management.
And only after that we move on to the stage of feedback to the employee on the results of the assessment,
career planning, what we discussed a little earlier, the very methodology of conducting an interview,
and the norming of the labor payment matrix.
Here it is very important to norm labor payment relative to grades,
and grades that are universal throughout the company,
but the labor payment matrix can vary from regions and from countries where certain units are located.
But here is a very important point,
that each employee will be able to compare himself with other employees based on the grade,
and not on the basis of the salary, which depends on regions and on countries.
And now we will discuss the mistakes that usually occur in companies in the area of career management.
The first mistake is the lack of career management function.
And on this slide we can see what problems the nature of the process leads to.
The nature of the process leads to the fact that we underestimate the ambitions and potential of the candidates we hire.
As a result, the candidates either do not apply, the current trial period increases,
the current staff during the first year of work,
the dissatisfaction of the employees with their position in the company,
and the resultativeness of their work decreases.
The next point is extravagant HR decisions.
As we know, the management sometimes likes to change the positioning of a particular employee unexpectedly,
including top managers.
They want to shift the position to a new one without discussing it with the employees.
Some managers, reasonably or not,
believe that any promotion that is accompanied by an increase in the salary should be desirable by the employees.
There is such a mechanistic approach,
especially for the company owners, who believe that any HR decision is possible for money.
We understand that in the reality of business, this is not always the case.
In order to prevent mistakes of our management, it is very important to plan a career for the long-term and the most accurate.
The third point is the financial losses of the company.
If we talk about training, then some companies train everyone for everything or something,
and as a result, if the training process and training plan are not connected with the planning of the career and with the strategic goals of the company,
then it is mostly wasted money.
That is, it is not an optimal investment in training and development.
Further, the consequences of the mistake of the absence of the function of managing the career are the uncontrollable struggle of the employees' ambitions,
who try to prove to the management who is cooler, who is more worthy of promotion and increase in salary.
As you understand, this does not increase the ability of the department to work.
This affects the atmosphere in the team negatively.
In order to keep the employees, we have to do it with a salary.
As a result, the company's costs for the salary increase, which is also not optimal.
In the next slide, we see the next problem, which is also related to the planning of the career.
This is a lack of systematic.
For example, in large companies, the planning of the career is done in one department,
training is done in another department, and the evaluation and adaptation is done in the next departments.
Accordingly, these processes have an internal logic, but are not connected with each other.
As a result, the management system itself loses its effectiveness.
Here I tried to show how the planning of the career, which directly affects the personnel decisions,
how all the functions of the staff management can be systematized and act in the system.
The next mistake is the lack of management of ambitions.
There are two possible situations.
On the one hand, when an employee whose ambition the company did not notice in time,
he somehow gets an offer from another company, usually competitors in the same industry,
and leaves us.
That is, he will now do his job in favor of our competitors, which is absolutely unprofitable for us.
Or the employee, on the contrary, has low ambitions, and according to the logic of the company's development,
we start promoting it, because it initially seems to us, thanks to the stereotype,
that each employee is interested in promotion and salary increase.
In practice, this is not the case.
Some employees are ready to take their position, they have reached the balance of life and work to which they aspired,
and therefore they do not dream of any promotion, and in addition, they will create obstacles.
But depending on whether they can honestly say about it or not.
How is this problem solved?
This is the detailing of the career ladder with a clear system of requirements for all competences,
both professional and managerial, and with a clear attachment to the level of wage.
Here is a pyramid, on which we see about 11 career levels in the company.
This is an example of a consulting company.
In consulting, almost all employees are the same, and do the same.
But in order to keep the competence of the employee within the company,
and in order not to overpay the beginners and retain more experienced employees,
a very detailed career matrix is built.
Here, as an example, I have given, and we see that in the company this matrix of 11 or 20 levels
can be assigned to the entire professional life of an employee,
and ideally, to keep him for the rest of his life in one company.
This often happens in large global Western companies, as we know.
And here, too, two situations are possible.
A number of employees are not ready to wait until two years later, three years later,
and will be considered for the next career step,
and they simply go to other companies, and immediately take higher positions.
But for another number of employees, on the contrary,
they are close to such a career planning option as life in one company,
and work in one company, in one industry all their life,
and then such a high career ladder is just adequate for their motivation,
for their promotion, for their life inside the company.
We have already noted a point that is related to the fact that not always the ambitions of an employee
and the opportunities of a company for its promotion coincide.
And, of course, most often, a special analytical work is necessary
in order to understand how within the framework of this organizational structure
our employees have the opportunities for career growth.
And on this slide, I tried to reflect how we can solve this problem
as a violation of the business needs and ambitions of the employee.
For example, we take all the adjacent departments
with the employee we are considering.
In this example, this is the marketing department.
Let's imagine that our employee, who is dissatisfied with his position,
is at the level of a specialist, and we, based on the results of his assessment,
have estimated that, yes, indeed, his knowledge and experience
are superior to the requirements of this position.
But in the marketing department we do not see such opportunities for promotion,
as all the positions are occupied, as we see, by the head of the group and the head of the department.
Then we begin to analyze all adjacent professional areas.
In relation to marketing, this is CRM, working with clients, this is sales,
and there can also be projects.
And in these verticals we can see possible vacancies.
Thus, for this specialist, we can show that he has the opportunity
to rotate horizontally to other adjacent departments,
in which he will gain new experience and new knowledge,
which will later help him make significant progress in his career,
depending on how much we evaluate his managerial potential and skills,
and how much he really wants to move in the management vertical.
For a certain amount of time, such horizontal rotations
for the employees in adjacent departments can look very profitable.
In this regard, the fact that the employee himself expands the area of his professional competencies,
and he perfectly understands that at the highest level,
at which these functions are combined, for example, at the position of sales director,
or PR and advertising director, all the knowledge that he receives at this first stage,
passing the rotation in adjacent departments, these knowledge will be very important to him.
And if the employee really looks into the distant future,
he will take our arguments with optimism and the opportunity to rotate to adjacent departments.
But on this example, I have given a very small slide in English,
but this is not important at all.
The most important thing in this slide is logic.
The logic of career planning options.
When we show the requirements for the increasing grades in the first line,
here TA stands for trainee analyst,
the next level A1 is the analyst of the first level, the analyst of the second, third,
and then the leading analysts of the first, second, third, and fourth grades.
This is an example of career planning for programmers.
And in the first line, the main requirements for these grades are indicated, which are common.
One or another logic of career development.
The second line shows the professional logic of career development,
and the third line shows the management logic.
As we can see, here we give programmers the opportunity to grow in professional level,
and also to start their management growth from the level of grade 3.
A person can already take on more and more management functions,
and we show it to him in a special third line.
I can say that based on experience, when we discuss this topic with an employee
and give a well-designed map of career paths,
it makes a very positive impression on the employees,
because they finally show their capabilities in this company in a clear form,
and the requirements are clearly shown, depending on the grade.
As you know, there are such curiosities when we hire a little inexperienced employee.
The first three months, six months, we teach him energetically,
and it seems to him that he already knows everything in his field.
And here, a very cooling factor is that we show this employee,
who already believes that he knows everything, and he is worthy of being transferred to a higher grade,
we show him such a matrix of career paths and requirements for each grade.
And when we tell a person that he has studied these three technologies perfectly,
which are necessary for this grade, but there are 15 technologies in the requirements of this grade,
the company will give him the opportunity to rotate in projects or in units,
during which he will have the opportunity to develop all his 10 other skills,
and thus, after some evaluation, we will be able to consider you for promotion to the next grade.
Thus, the information of employees plays a key role here,
because if an employee does not have information, he may have inadequate ambitions.
When we give information to a person, we show him the general rules of the game,
we show him that these general rules are adopted by the higher management of the company,
and they work for each employee, not only for him.
And the whole logic of the development of colleagues is subordinate to these rules,
and this makes absolute clarity in this corporate game, in this corporate life.
And employees feel more confident on the one hand, and on the other hand, feel more protected.
The employee understands that only his efforts and his energy and initiative depend on his career progress.
And with the help of such a map, it is very effective to motivate employees to those projects,
on which they would not have agreed with other information.
For example, in this matrix, we have made such an important point as the need for each employee
to work in customer support before a certain grade.
And here we put it as a mandatory condition and justify to programmers that only by working in this function,
in the function of customer support, they will acquire very important skills.
First, they will better understand the needs of customers,
they will better understand what mistakes customers most often face,
they will better understand the code that they did not write,
they will better learn how to work with this code optimally,
and find mistakes in it and correct them.
And this will play a role in the next attestation.
Thus, in such a detailed map of career paths,
it is possible to achieve a combination of interests,
on the one hand, the logic of the development of the employees themselves,
the logic of the development of their ambitions, and the logic of the business needs.
Here, of course, business needs play a key role in this career path matrix.
When it fits on one page, this is also a crucial point.
When each employee can see the horizon of his development right on one page,
this is very important for him, such an important, obvious, normal logic.
And this document becomes open, and each employee understands what is required of him,
and what efforts he can make in order to advance in his career,
and to have more arguments for the next interview,
based on the results of his previous activity.
In the next slide, we see that it is dedicated to the shortcomings of the personnel decision-making system.
For example, no matter how well we plan the career of employees,
if we do not have a decision-making tool and promotion of employees,
such planning is rather provocative,
because we include ambitions, we give hope to employees, but we cannot support them.
Thus, in order to connect the planning of the career with the adoption of management decisions,
a unified information system works very well for this purpose.
When all our employees and the organizational structure live in one software system,
and the management, when it has a need to consider or compare several employees,
can identify the best candidate for promotion,
the management can do it with just a few clicks of a mouse,
get a comparative report on several employees,
and can make a management decision.
In addition, this decision will be argued,
because it will be based on objective factors.
Accordingly, this is the engine of the process of planning the career.
In the next slide, I would like to reflect that different little things can play a very important role in planning the career.
For example, during one assessment center,
when we identified management competencies,
various assessment tools were used, including tests and interview on competencies,
we aimed to select the stars that we could recommend to management promotion based on objective factors.
The only thing is that in this company, which was global,
promotion was associated with the need to change the place of residence, move to another region.
Yes, a person won a salary, and the company considered that this is a great happiness.
If you are nominated for the stars,
you have such wonderful opportunities as moving to other regions with a salary increase and a position.
During my interview, I was surprised to see a very strong candidate,
who showed very strong results in various tests and objectively entered the category of stars.
When I saw a very complaining expression on his face,
our interview ended with him asking not to include him in the reservists,
because he just doesn't want to change his place of residence.
Here he has relatives, here he has a big family, here his children study.
He looked with such sadness and said that despite the fact that we spent so much time on him,
and indeed he is very strong in results, in his management potential, in his ability to learn,
nevertheless, there was a banal household obstacle, that he just didn't want to change his place of work.
Therefore, he was not ready to move forward within the global framework.
Within the framework of this region, there was no opportunity for promotion,
but this did not create any discomfort for him.
Thus, during this deep assessment, the company finally received information
that the person simply does not want to move forward for household reasons,
for family reasons, otherwise it would not have known about it.
Also, in the next slide, I am talking about neglecting the context.
The fact is that when we form a pool of reservists,
we select stars using numerous assessment procedures,
and we attract a lot of attention to employees,
we develop them, create individual development plans for them.
This, of course, objectively causes some anxiety for the managers.
The manager understands, either for objective or subjective reasons,
that he will not be able to move forward in his career,
or he is busy in a higher position,
and he naturally has anxiety about his high-potential employees.
There are even cases when the management of the company's staff and management
does not control enough what is happening in the department,
such high-potential employees easily receive offers from competitors,
and for them the direct manager creates a situation
when a person simply accepts another offer and leaves for another company.
Accordingly, this company has lost money,
invested time in this employee, and it is already losing it.
How to overcome this obstacle?
Since the company is large, it has many departments, many enterprises,
if not even enough enterprises,
but we can say that the company is growing,
and therefore vacancies arise in different departments.
If the company postulates that the employee is preparing,
and the company prepares him for the position of his direct manager,
and that a person can be prepared for a higher position in another department
or in another enterprise in another region,
this usually relaxes the situation and removes the conflict of interests
of the direct boss and his high-potential employee.
Here, of course, the issue can be solved with the help of internal PR
and with the help of correct management decisions.
When there are real personnel shifts from one department to another,
between enterprises, only then the direct bosses will not feel the threat
from their high-potential subordinates.
In the next slide, I describe another obstacle to the planning of a career
as a local interest.
The fact is that the direct manager is least interested in the career of his subordinates.
Why? Because he simply does not want to lose a strong employee.
And, of course, here we immediately get this obstacle,
that the directors themselves are far from always ready to give the management of the staff their stars
and point to them.
On the contrary, they want to hide it and want to keep their employee in their department as long as possible.
But this is very unprofitable for the company,
and this company is very likely to lose an ambitious employee.
And if the employee is not ambitious enough,
then the company may lose the opportunity to develop this employee,
expand its functionality and responsibility.
This problem is solved by the fact that the project on managing personnel,
on managing the career of a staff member,
it has a single center, becomes systematic and is managed independently.
This is usually done by the management of the staff of HR or by an external provider.
This business process is managed independently,
all data is processed centrally,
and it is very important that this process has a total and unyielding character,
so that each manager understands that this is not only about his department,
this process concerns the company as a whole.
Then the obstacles from the direct managers will not be able to be realized,
despite the fact that they can be,
but nevertheless it will be more difficult to implement.
The next possible problem in planning a career is a narrow understanding of the process itself.
If the company understands this only as promotion vertically,
then there are two possible problems, as we have already said.
The first is promotion of a highly professional specialist without management competencies,
or an obstacle from the boss in working with this employee,
only because he feels that he has management ambitions.
Accordingly, the solution to this problem is postulating in the company
and advertising, internal PR in the company,
horizontal career, cross-departmental,
and vertical careers, but in cross-departmental.
This helps to relieve unnecessary tension.
Artificial intelligence, but this is the next slide,
shows us the problem that concerns a number of international ambitious companies,
which, using different methods of corporate culture,
specifically provoke competition among employees,
specifically provoke their ambitions,
and create a trend for career promotion,
and anti-trend for long-term position.
If this is based on the logic of business, then nothing can be done about it.
But if the logic of business does not contradict both fast careers and long-term position,
it is very important to understand that both career and professional development
are possible within the same position,
but due to deepening of the functionality and expansion of powers,
with adequate financial support.
Also, I will talk about another problem of career planning,
which is the lack of responsibility for employees.
Here in the column we see that the responsibility of an employee lies in the plane of motivation,
in the plane of updating his potential, both professional and managerial,
and in his real and professional personal efforts,
so that the employee overcomes obstacles in his professional development and in his managerial development.
Here, as a rule, even the efforts of HR or external coaches are needed,
coaching, as a deep consultation of an employee to reveal his personal potential,
which is necessary for professional promotion.
That is, it is the support of an employee in his professional growth.
As we can see, most often now career growth, even managerial growth,
it precedes personal growth of a person, personal development.
And we see top managers at 23 years old, at 25 years old,
and the social experience of an employee is not enough here
so that he can effectively solve issues at such a high level.
Accordingly, here, on the part of the company, there can be help in the form of consulting, in the form of coaching.
And on the part of the company, the responsibility for the promotion of an employee is quality management of staff,
it is adaptation, assessment, training, development, motivation and adoption of weighted personnel decisions.
On the one hand, these decisions must be timely,
they must be prepared by the logic of the employee, the logic of his development,
the logic of his performance assessment,
and they must be made on time,
before the employee's ambitions go too far from the company's capabilities.
So, now let's move on to the discussion of the specifics of the work of the training center
and how it is in the plane of career planning,
how the training and development of employees in the company supports the process of career planning.
So, on this slide I want to show how the company's training is usually evolved.
So, at the first stage, the first stage of understanding the company and its needs in training,
usually, they teach someone something on the initiative of the employees themselves or on the initiative of the manager.
When there are no serious reasons for training, or they are formal,
and the training is built absolutely spontaneously.
But this leads either to non-optimal costs for training, or to the fact that they are just unnecessary costs.
At the second stage of the training system in the company,
usually, in a planned mode, all managers are asked what they need to teach their employees.
And this information is collected in the department of work with the staff,
and it is considered that this is already such a systematic approach to training.
But on this pyramid, we see that this is not so.
And even if the company, for example, wants to train and improve the sales skills of its sales department,
this somehow helps to make training purposeful and investment in training also productive.
As we see in this pyramid at the third level, here the company already organizes its own training center.
Internal trainers are hired for internal training, external providers are attracted, tenders are held.
And thus, the company tries to make investment in training as effective and optimal as possible.
Topics are chosen on which it is optimal to use internal trainers.
Usually, this topic is related to sales and management for very large companies.
And only at the fourth level, a corporate university appears.
A corporate university is a systematic training program for staff that affects almost all employees.
Even if we talk about packers, for example,
packers can be trained in festive packaging or the most optimal packaging, and so on.
Here, the training system covers all employees and it is positioned depending on the positions and the needs of the company,
the needs of employees at each position.
And at the fifth stage, a corporate culture of self-training organization is already formed,
when different factors work at the same time.
Formalized corporate training center, training in the workplace, coaching,
and the value of a self-training organization that supports innovations, including staff management.
Thus, as you can see, the company has a lot to grow in training.
And you can evaluate at what level your company is now and what you need to do to move to the next level.
So, in the next slide, we see the training center and its connection with other staff management functions.
And we see here that all functions are very interconnected.
And the training center can serve not only the purpose of training,
but it is also associated with the evaluation of staff, planning of a career, and adaptation of staff.
And the activities of the training center also depend on the life cycle of a person in the company.
We know that at some positions, employees usually work for six months, a year.
For the company, this is fair, for the business, this is fair.
And, accordingly, the training program for these positions is customized for this life cycle of an employee.
At some positions, the company is interested in the employee's longer life,
and then the training program and career planning are customized for this.
In the next two slides, I will try to reflect the opportunities of a career,
both for employees who occupy their positions in production units and for office employees.
For example, career paths even in production units,
for example, where we have packers, components, logistics, warehouse specialists, controllers.
Career paths are also possible here.
The only thing is the requirement for a particular position.
And here, in practice, it turns out that an employee who wants to move to a higher paid branch of career development,
he needs to receive additional professional knowledge and skills,
and carry out this transfer even with a decrease in the position.
For example, a person from the position of a packer can switch to the position of a controller
only after studying certain software products on a computer.
And after learning to use a computer, such a transition is possible only with a decrease in the position.
But the employee is going for it, he has ambitions to grow in a different career vertical
and with other opportunities in salary.
And in the next slide, we can see a similar development of career paths, but for office staff.
Here, for example, I took a mixed branch.
This is PR, work with clients, marketing, sales.
As a rule, in the end, for each of these verticals, a person can grow to the position of a general director.
And possible rotations are very easy at the lower levels, at the levels of specialists, junior specialists,
when an employee masters a very narrow area and must be a professional in it.
Further, possible rotations are already at the level of average management,
when a person leads a branch.
And here, the knowledge of mixed branches also plays a key role.
And if we show an employee taking the position of a specialist,
then his horizontal rotations, maybe even with a salary retention, without salary increase,
they will help him to move faster along the vertical.
After a while, this can be a very motivating and important point for employees.
The same possible parallel rotations for employees of accounting and finance departments, for example.
Inside HR, we saw that it is also possible to rotate functions.
And for almost every branch, you can find possible parallel movements,
which will motivate employees, will give them a sense of novelty,
will give them additional experience, additional skills.
And as a result, as employees often say, their capitalization in the labor market will increase.
They will be able to sell themselves more expensively inside this company or inside another company.
In this slide, I tried to reflect in detail how the tasks of the training center are set,
and how they are tied to the stages of the career.
Here, as we can see, the career ladder is already unfolding in the plane of the training task and in the plane of those programs.
This slide is important only in terms of the fact that the detailing of the training plans is very serious,
and it is tied to the career plans.
Further, we can look at this slide in more detail.
For example, an intern on the Internet sales of music discs.
We see what topics of programs are important for him, if he just joins the company, and the content of these programs.
As we can see, at the level of an intern, for us, first of all, corporate adaptation of the employee is important,
which we achieve with the help of adaptation training and professional adaptation.
At this stage, it is very important to give a person some minimum of skills and knowledge,
but also so that a person can effectively express himself in a fairly narrow functionality,
so that a person can feel the result of his work as soon as possible,
that yes, he can, yes, he is recognized in this company.
And only after that, we gradually reveal to these employees how much more they need to learn in order to advance in their career.
For example, here we see for a junior sales specialist of music discs,
already a significantly larger range of programs that he must study.
We see how many trainings he still has to go through.
And when we show the employee from the youngest position the entire vertical of development and all those topics that he has to learn,
which he has to study on his way to the company, then this is also motivating for a person.
He understands that yes, this company is seriously related to a career, is seriously related to training,
and he has a place to grow and he has a perspective.
Well, in this slide we see how this is revealed in detail for a sales specialist of music discs.
Here is an experienced specialist, the head of the Internet sales group.
Here we can see that at the level of an experienced specialist,
we already want some coaching skills from a person in relation to junior specialists.
Thus, we gradually grow the skills of a manager in a specialist.
And we let him try this function in order for him to decide for himself how much he is interested in being a manager or not.
As we understand, in the vertical of sales, for us, as for the company, it is equally interesting as a person who just sells well and sells a lot,
and sells more and more with each period.
We are also interested in people who grow vertically and take management positions.
Accordingly, here we support both logic.
And at a higher level, a person can take a position of the head of the sales department of music discs and DVDs.
What problems can we encounter in the planning of a career in a company?
Well, managers are afraid of losing valuable specialists as a result of their rotation to other departments,
so managers can objectively slow down the development of an employee,
can hide some information and can interfere with the rotation in one way or another.
Managers themselves are very painfully reacting to the unification of the budget for training and its management by HR,
from the side of staff management.
If before that managers were used to the fact that each of them independently decides whom to teach,
then with the centralization of this budget, plans are developed centrally,
and here they, of course, lose this freedom, this opportunity to teach each employee at their discretion.
If within the framework of HR, the functions are very differentiated,
and the training specialists, they rarely agree with their actions with career development specialists,
here it is clear that the company also loses efficiency.
And also, if the company does not have a normal software system,
which would allow to receive management information on time and use it for management decisions,
then here the company also loses.
Well, on this slide I have reflected at least four such global obstacles along this path.
In conclusion, this slide shows, I would like to illustrate to him,
that the planning of a career and the process of training and development,
they should go side by side and should support each other.
It is then that the company receives the greatest return from the investment in this process.
Thank you for your attention.
I hope the complexity of this topic did not scare you.
You have seen how many stages each company can go through in planning a career and in training and development.
You have seen to what extent the career and training can be planned in detail.
That is, now we understand what we can aspire to,
and how optimal it is to use our investments for the benefit of business development,
and how we can achieve the synergy of business interests and the ambitions of employees.
I wish you success on this difficult path.